[KOGITO-9468] Describing Output schema (#383)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/core/defining-an-input-schema-for-workflows.adoc

= Input and Output schema definition for {product_name}
:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Defining input schema for Serverless Workflow
:keywords: kogito, workflow, serverless, dataInputSchema

> == Input Schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Input schema
```

}
----

> In the previous definition, the `schema` property is a URI, which holds the path to the JSON schema used to validate the workflow data input. The URI can be a classpath URI, a file, or an HTTP URL. If a classpath URI is specified, then the JSON schema file must be placed in the resources section of the project or any other directory included in classpath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous definition, the `schema` property is a URI, which holds the path to the JSON schema used to validate the workflow data input. The URI can be a classpath URI, a file, or an HTTP URL. If a classpath URI is specified, then the JSON schema file must be placed in the resources section of the project or any other directory included in the classpath.
```

> `failOnValidationErrors` is an optional flag that indicates the behaviour adopted when the input data does not match the specified JSON schema. If not specified or set to true, an exception will be thrown and flow execution fails. If set to false, the flow will be executed and a log of level WARN with the validation errors will be printed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`failOnValidationErrors` is an optional flag that indicates the behavior adopted when the input data does not match the specified JSON schema. If not specified or set to true, an exception will be thrown and flow execution will fail. If set to false, the flow will be executed and a log of level WARN with the validation errors will be printed.
```

> == Output Schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Output schema
```

> Serverless Workflow specification does not support Json Output schema until version 0.9. Therefore {product_name} is implementing it as an link:{spec_doc_url}#extensions[Serverless Workflow specification extension]. Output schema is applied after workflow execution to verify that the output model has the expected format. It is also useful for Swagger generation purposes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless Workflow specification does not support Json output schema until version 0.9. Therefore {product_name} is implementing it as a link:{spec_doc_url}#extensions[Serverless Workflow specification extension]. Output schema is applied after workflow execution to verify that the output model has the expected format. It is also useful for Swagger generation purposes. 
```

> As with Input schema, you should specify the url to the json schema, using `outputSchema` as follows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Input schema, you must specify the URL to the JSON schema, using `outputSchema` as follows:
```

Author: @kaldesai here Im trying to same that the behaviour is similar to the input schema one, how should I write it?

Reviewer: @fjtirado, maybe something like this?
```suggestion
Similar to Input schema, you must specify the URL to the JSON schema, using `outputSchema` as follows:
```

.`outputSchema` definition

> ----
> "extensions" : [ {
>       "extensionid": "workflow-output-schema",
>       "outputSchema": { 
>          "schema" : "URL_to_json_schema",
>           "failOnValidationErrors": false
>      }
>   ]
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,json,subs="attributes+"]
----
"extensions" : [ {
      "extensionid": "workflow-output-schema", <1>
      "outputSchema": { 
         "schema" : "URL_to_json_schema", <2>
          "failOnValidationErrors": false <3>
     }
  ]
----
```

Then you can describe each line below:

```asciidoc
1.
2.
3.
```

Author: hmm, good to know for future editions (I would certainly use it for executor guides), but in this case I prefer the old approach, since the content has already described in the previous section and I do not want to duplicate it

Reviewer 3: I think Ricardo mainly meant to include the `[source,json,subs="attributes+"]` to have the highlighting.

Author: Ok added source hightlighting

> Same rules described for `dataInputSchema` applies for `schema` and `failOnValidationErrors`. The difference being that the latter flag is applied after workflow execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same rules described for `dataInputSchema` apply for `schema` and `failOnValidationErrors`. The difference is that the latter flag is applied after workflow execution.
```

> == Example

Reviewer: Is this an example with `dataInputSchema` and `outputSchema`? If yes, then you can mention it in the title. Something like this?
```suggestion
== Example with `dataInputSchema` and `outputSchema`
```

You can see the link:{kogito_sw_examples_url}/serverless-workflow-expression-quarkus[serverless-workflow-expression-quarkus] example application of a workflow definition with `dataInputSchema` and `outputSchema`. 

== Swagger documentation

> When a workflow definition contains a `dataInputSchema` and/or `outputSchema` attribute, the workflow application generates an OpenAPI file, such as `http://localhost/q/openapi`. The generated OpenAPI file references the schema file, which helps in defining the input and checking the output data for the workflows. For more information about the OpenAPI file, see link:{open_api_spec_url}[OpenAPI specification].

Reviewer 3: Port is missing probably?
```suggestion
When a workflow definition contains a `dataInputSchema` and/or `outputSchema` attribute, the workflow application generates an OpenAPI file, such as `http://localhost:8080/q/openapi`. The generated OpenAPI file references the schema file, which helps in defining the input and checking the output data for the workflows. For more information about the OpenAPI file, see link:{open_api_spec_url}[OpenAPI specification].
```
